all right so welcome folks this is
actually the inaugural hahaha the
inaugural meeting public meeting of the
ipfs community working group obviously
there are a few of us have been working
for some time together on this stuff but
we're really happy to be inviting other
people to it to come and join us and
talk about what we're doing and how we
can flush the ipfs community forward so
for those who haven't met me which is
probably just and I'm Terry Chad Boer
and I'm a community manager for IMAP
protocol labs more than just ipfs but
one of the big things I work on is the
proto school project maybe we can just
go around since we haven't all met each
other and give a a quick intro sure my
name is Portia I am the community
engineer and I wear different hats as
they suggest but one of the bigger
things that I work on is making sure
that the contributors have a good
experience when you're contributing to
ipfs and I also work on some of the code
base as well thank you Michael
I'm Michael Rogers I am leading with the
community stuff for protocol labs
including Ipsy I'm on this call here and
working on some proto school stuff still
and even though teri is doing the bulk
of the work there yeah and yeah that's
about it
dan hmm well I'm glad to be joining your
inaugural meeting guys my name's my
name's dan shields and although I'm just
becoming maybe uh officially part of
what you guys are doing I'm hoping I'm
based in Colorado I do a lot with the
community here locally in the blockchain
community especially but reputed systems
are definitely with keen on my interest
right now I'd like to be doing a lot of
things with ipfs and actually proto
school came up for me I guess before you
guys officially released so I was
playing around with that
last few days awesome I hope you like it
please feel free to send any feedback my
way we're actually still pre-release
which I'll share later so that's a
clearly live but not publicly so it's
been nice to have some people finding it
and giving me some feedback Jim you want
to give us a quick interests we're
working with the dynamic data working
group and we're going to be trying to
we've got libraries and we want people
to use them so that's gonna be one of my
main tactics awesome been a part of many
community things from so where as this
is our first official meeting here we're
gonna try the format that we have in
this document which is one that I've
seen in other calls and like so the way
we're gonna take stab at this meeting
and we could change it if we want to do
something else but we're gonna work
through you'll see we have an agenda
section at the top so feel free to add
items there if you have announcements
you want to share if you have some demo
of something that's exciting that has to
do with community growth there is just
just to clarify there is an IP FS All
Hands call that is for the entire
community but that's a better place to
surface like the exciting the app you
built using IP FS etcetera this call is
really focused on what we do to build
the community create resources for the
community improve documentation though
things like proto school so anything
along those lines is totally valid for
this agenda so feel free to add things
here before the meeting or during the
meeting I think of them and then we also
have a section below for team updates so
what we'll try is just go through the
team updates there and no pressure that
some of us are are Huff full-time
working on this working group and some
of us are not so no pressure cat things
there if if that's not your situation
but we'll try right through the team up
it's first and then heading back to the
agenda items and talking a little bit
about those things and we can distract
ourselves as we go if we find the format
isn't working
so I will kick us off with this first
team update if everybody's in that
document so the biggest thing I've been
working on before the holidays yesterday
is getting us to the 1.0 milestone of
part of school which is it it was prior
to this milestone just the tutorials so
online self-guided workshops that help
you understand decentralized web
concepts right now the content assembly
focused on ipfs it will extend beyond
that but this call is about life's the
ipfs community and so now that site
includes a lot more information about
sort of the community aspect of proto
school what we want is to have chapter
organizers around the world who are
leading live in-person events using the
protocol tutorials as content about
having mentors in person which can be a
really nice friendly onboarding
experience for people so that's the goal
that all of those tutorials will be
useful both online and in person at
events so there's now proto school lives
in its own github organization there's
an organizing repo there with
information about how to set up a local
chapter which gives people then access
to have if they want to set up a github
pages site so that they would then be on
our domain so they would have proto desk
a little slash San Francisco or whatever
the case may be so there's a way for
them to set up an easy website there
otherwise they can just use the repo use
it for discussions with local community
members and give us a link to different
websites they've set up or you just use
that repo use the readme in there as
their site whatever they're most
comfortable with it's really trying to
make the process as easy as we can for
people and provide a lot of resources
without directly controlling what
they're doing chapters are really meant
to operate independently so we've done a
lot of work between Michael and I and
some of the other folks
to build this structure that we hope
will support community growth and like I
said that site is life now with those
changes there's also a new tutorial that
I'm excited about that's just tech space
Michael started in and I took a stab at
tweaking it and it's really it's you
don't need to know how to code to do
this one it's really meant to introduce
some of the basic concepts of
decentralized web what's location
addressing that you're used to versus
content addressing what's hashing the
stuff that makes it all work and helps
explain why one would bother I think
it's really important in terms of
onboarding beginner friendly materials
so that stuff is there now and for the
next week and a half or so before the
14th I'm gonna be working on prep for a
launch so getting our Twitter account
set up getting some folks within
protocol labs and I'm happy to have
other people do this as well go through
provide more feedback
there are various issue templates for
stuff that you find there have people
who already know they want to leave
chapter set those up so we have more to
look at I mean that listing page
wouldn't be lunch so this is now the
kind of fine-tuning making the tweaks
that we have time to make before that
launch on the 14th and then we'll do
that during the ipfs weekly call on the
parties and yeah any questions on any of
that stuff just wanted to comment real
quick the in the district Oriole you
just landed yesterday so it's people
have like we're looking at front of
school before late yes yes yes yeah
exactly
that just hit um so yeah anything else
on produce cool yeah so I'll have to
check out that new section that's really
cool but talked about chapters actually
I run a bunch of different meetups out
here in my area I love to be on that
list and help yeah yeah that would be
great so what I'd love for you to do as
an experiment is to just go to the proto
school website and see if you can figure
from there how to get to the information
about how to set up the chapter if you
succeed you'll find hopefully very
detailed steps to follow feel free to
ping me directly if if you fail but
hopefully that'll be a test run and you
can give me feedback on whether those
instructions make sense yeah and that
would be great if you happen to have
time before the 14th to get the get your
you know get your repo set up whether or
not you want to connect it to a website
it doesn't have to be a website hosted
on our site either I think some people
who already run meetup groups might
choose to have their meetup site be the
website for their chapter which is
totally fine there's a way to give us
the link to that instead of something
else so however you want to make that
work it's fine but it would be great to
have you as one of those one of those
people who's creating one of our first
chapters I'll be honest I'm sure I'll go
dig around cool and then one of the
things there's a lot if you look at this
if you look at the issues on github you
know as we've been going with this
milestone we've certainly pushed some
issues to the future so there's a lot in
there some of it it's little tweaks some
of it is new tutorial proposals one of
the tutorials that were excited to build
next which is not this is not between
now and next week but one of the next
ones we want to build is one on using
the IP FS file API which I think will
make why one would bother using IP FS
more clear if you don't feel like
transmitting random JSON text you know
could be hopeful so Michaels gonna take
on the task of making proto school
actually work with files on the web
without all the security issues that
browsers don't usually let you do that
and then I'm gonna take a stab at
building those the actual tutorial that
you would go through to learn how to use
that so that's one of the exciting ones
that were looking forward to I think
that's it for me on team updates Portia
do you wanna go next
yeah sure well I'll just give an update
on what I did last quarter one of the
bigger projects that I worked on was
revamping the ipfs weekly call our
weekly calls are five five o'clock UTC
time and this was just a good way for us
to figure out what people are doing in a
community so how we have the cults now
that we have announcements and we have
people who are building cool stuff I
have someone from pinata who's actually
going to present the next month or two
and this is just like a really good
forum for people to know exactly like
what are the different features we're
working on in terms of the API how to
actually use IP FS in certain cases and
why is distributed web like why is ipfs
important we actually had someone talk
on nico talked about that in november um
so i PFS this is a really good way of
the ipfs weekly calls a really good way
for curious people who have who are part
of meetups curious people who want to
get started in working with IPF to fix
is to figure out well what have we been
doing and I I think it was pretty
exciting um last quarter I've also
worked on figuring out what it means to
contribute to our code base it's like
when I started at protocol labs working
on ipfs I remember like during one of
the first calls someone I'm not going to
us someone mention hey if you're curious
just die then and for me I've been
spending the past two or three months
figuring out what does it mean to just
dive in like what does it mean for
someone
who
is a developer or someone who's written
Docs and who's curious and what kind of
steps they should take in order to like
make a land a meaningful contribution so
some of the things include me actually
working on the Jas ipfs API to see like
what are the different steps one has to
take what are some of the common
questions that people have what are some
of the gaps in terms of the contributor
documentation and last month we had our
very first contribute to ipfs event held
in berlin and this event was a really
good way to talk to people face to face
about their motivations for contributing
and what are some of the problems that
they encounter and what are some of the
things that we are doing right so it was
really encouraging I got a chance to
meet people who work on documentation
for other distributed web projects such
as etherium I got chance to talk to
developers who were curious and who
wanted to get that first first PR out
there so that was last semester I
semester that was last quarter what I'm
what we're going when I'm going to do
for next for this upcoming quarter I
want to continue to take like the
learnings of the pain points and work on
a documentation like work on ways that
people who want to contribute can easily
get on board it welcome them and be able
to like have a process like let's say
that you are curious and you don't know
where to begin
well we're building like on nation and
we're building better Docs to help
people get from being curious to
actually landing PR and speaking of
document documentation I will also be
working on looking at we have we have a
lot of documentation and we're figuring
out a better
way in terms of making it easier for
someone to look at it and build their
own DAP and to figure out how to make
ipfs more accessible based on like the
organization of our dock so I will be
looking at Elte doing an audit of the
docks and figuring out like what is
really working for us in ipfs and what
can be improved upon so that's me and
that's what I have been working on and
that's why I will be continuing to work
on are there any questions I think you
have a a github issue open to collect
information if people have suggestions
on like where the docks are confusing or
like a new contributor pain points and
stuff like that so it's not a good place
for people to help influence that
process as you're going through it that
definitely is a good place and I can
actually put that post recording on the
link to that issue awesome Thank You
Terry
so Michael yeah it's me it's my turn um
I don't even remember what happened last
quarter I I've taken a break-in it's all
gone now but last night I finished up I
so pro to school tutorials now have a
way to do file uploads it basically
replaces the run button and you drop
files or upload files instead and then
the function signature takes those files
from the browser
I think whatever tutorials that we do
are going to have to begin with like a
quick tutorial like just working with
file objects in the browser because
they're a little tricky but yeah it's
looking really good so that's up in a PR
in a work-in-progress PR and yet now I
just need to do a lot of metrics work
I'm still working on like this this big
project to try to figure out like what
is the growth of the overall ipfs
community by pulling a lot of data out
of they could have archived and
processing it so there's some
interesting some MapReduce lambda work
that I'm doing there and that is coming
along nicely it's just it's yeah it
takes these things take forever to run
and to generate like these cache files
and stuff so the whole dev process is
just really kind of prolonged because
I'm always waiting for things to run so
yeah that's me
awesome Dan or Jim do either of you have
anything you've been working on that you
wanted to share with us no pressure but
I'll just quickly just I'm just dropping
in from another group so I didn't write
it all up in the in the document but
yeah so for the past quarter in the
dynamic data group we've been working on
a demo called peer pad which has been
around for a while but it's been all
rewritten under the covers and getting
everything working and it's it's
actually sort of semi functional now and
so I'm looking forward to the next to
the spring here trying to maybe develop
some tutorials with I'd love to get some
stuff in the protocol using the
underlying libraries
awesome so actually Jim maybe you and I
should talk later because part of the
peer Pat is basically inspiration for
what I've been working on and so I guess
like you're saying Kerry this isn't a
place to talk more about the demos but
in the background what I'm interested in
in producing is a distributed hosted
community set of resources here so
trying to inspire people to host their
own node and host content all on
effectively a community website so it's
owned for and operated and hosted by the
community is the idea so tearpad is kind
of the backend I've been looking at
actually yeah just just the concept of
using the you need to to build like
really sort of interactive things to tie
a lot of people together in a
decentralized manner you really do want
to use the C RDP style data structures
contain pre replicated data types which
is hard for anybody understand so
obviously the school idea fits in
perfectly with that yeah awesome and Jim
there's a specific type of issue
available to propose new tutorial ideas
for proto school so whenever you get to
a point where you think you have
something kind of flush out if how it
would look
feel free to pop in a key in there and
we can start talking the mother yeah I
barely even started to think about it
that's totally fine you've got you've
got me thinking about maybe running a
local chapter here though that is that
would be lovely if your theme to do it
this is time to get started
um okay so let's we've gone through our
people so let's pop back up to the
agenda it's even else we have on there
so if anybody wants to meet us a couple
of us Portia and I are gonna be at
FOSDEM in Brussels which I think it's a
very second and third or something like
that and then I think probably Michel in
Portia and I will be in San Francisco
area at waffle Jas I think it's February
it's the week of the 11th it might be
midweek that week on on-site so if
anybody wants to get together do let us
know and then Michael you wanted to kind
of look together at the working group ok
ours for q1 so I put a link in the
agenda doc do you want to kind of leave
that discussion
sorry muted sure um yes I'll knock
through it real quick I was looking
through it earlier just to find my stuff
and it turns out I don't have a ton on
here actually so it's Elysium so
protocol is a growing Poplarville
project I think that so we I don't think
that we should go through this one right
now just because the priority right now
is just getting the launch out for next
week so we can kind of return to that
after the big public launch since that's
what we're putting all of our energy
into at the moment although I did
actually complete my my item on here for
the for the tutorial for the file upload
tutorials the SPFs is an inviting
project to contribute to so in here we
talked a bit about separating out the
first contributor guidelines into a
document in a separate policy and then
first-time contributors are greeted by
inviting automated message so Portia did
you mention that during her update I'm
sorry I don't recall yeah yeah he did
and then there's a wonderful little the
last one in here is this awesome issue
that's actually going to be like I want
to work is but they're removing ready
event from basic usage stuff so
um should we set like we should set up
like a separate kind of think about that
because I have a bunch of information in
my head about it too that we should kind
of break down awesome yeah
so let's um let's try to do that well
I'm out next week so maybe week after
next we can follow up with that um and
you talked about the tax on so
developers can discover how to solve
problems by PFS is the last objective
Porsha already talked about detect on of
me that she's working on for the
documentation stuff and I guess the last
thing is the publication that Terry's
been putting together do you have any
updates on on that right now I know
there actually has been some movement
there but I think it's mostly discussion
right now yeah mostly discussion so we
aren't the current plan is that by the
end of the quarter we will have a medium
publication this name is in question but
the the publication would cover not just
ipfs but the broader kind of scope of
decentralized web and I view it as a
place from this community perspective is
a great place to start this like cool
things that people are doing with these
technologies to kind of create this sort
of mentorship like I think as people see
someone sharing the cool thing they
built with ipfs they might feel a little
more like oh I could I could try
something so use cases or tutorials or
why did I build this thing or why did I
not want to build this on the
centralized web places to surface a lot
of that whether it's around ipfs or
around limb p2p a multi-format to know
the other stuff that we're talking about
and it may include some kind of bigger
like philosophical discussions it can
take a lot of formats some of the things
that medium offers us also is the
ability to embed videos so for example
if one of you gave a talk at a
conference about decentralized we can
embed the video and you can write up a
little bit of context around it it you
can also embed podcast episodes I think
there's a potential podcast and the
works here that exactly is coordinating
and so we might be able to do something
similar with those
I find it really easy to put in you know
just some code and images and whatever
so it's pretty user friendly and easy to
coordinate between writers and editors
so this is a this is a format that I've
used before on the offline camp
publication and we'll also think about
what should be actually across posted
there to get when we're talking about
the aspects of decentralized to appeal
to people that are most interested in it
working on fly there may be a broader
audience there to kind of push some
traffic back and forth um so at the
moment this is still sort of in
brainchild stage I believe if you click
that link you'll find the start at the
bottom of it you'll find a link to
another conversation where we started
like people are throwing in a few ideas
around topics articles I'd like to write
so feel free to surface to me or in that
issue let me get a link to the right
issue for you there's any ideas that you
have for writing I'm very open to
authors from throughout the community so
feel free to surface ideas but
realistically this is not this is not
like a January we launched we're very
focused on making sure we get proto
school at the door and but by the end of
the quarter we hope to have at least the
first few articles out for it and have
some some structure going I did not kind
of look at kind of what we expect down
the road
[Applause]
check one on this okay ours Michael oh
the other thing to know it's just those
to the left of each of those okay ours
you will see that there's a link to an
issue for people to easily be able to
find a place to comment and contribute
to that discussion so that's a nice
connection there that will hopefully
make it easy for us to talk about those
as we go now I'm working on a little
dashboard app that like dynamically
pulls that data out and then it shows
you all the activity from all the issues
it's pretty cool but who knows when
that'll be done I have no time okay yeah
I think that we're good I mean we've got
two minutes left to 9:00 so I think that
we can just give everybody their two
minutes back unless there's some any
last-minute questions from like Dan or
Jim I'm just glad to meet you guys thank
you so much for including me yeah I'm
glad you joined us same here to drop in
we love it great I'll have a have a
lovely weekend and we'll be back here
next week same time if anyone wants to
continue to join us
[Laughter]